Local Area [[Networks]] (LAN) can be connected to create a larger network and sometimes become Wide Area [[Networks]] (WAN). These connected [[networks]] can expand and increase communication and effectiveness of the organization. The following devices can be used to connect [[networks]]:

- **Repeaters** extend the range of cabling types so connections can be made by increasing the strength of the [[networks|network]] signal. For example, if two twisted pair cabling [[networks]] are 500 feet apart, a repeater can be used to extend the 300 feet range of twisted pair cabling to 500 feet. Repeaters can be used on fiber and coaxial also.
- **Bridges** are used to connect to different types of [[networks|network]] and provide management of the message. For example, a bridge can connect a twisted pair and coaxial network. The bridge analyzes the [[networks|network]] message and will only bridge the network if a message is addressed to a device on the other side.
- **Switches** are used on LANs to reduce [[networks|network]] traffic by management of [[networks|network]] messages. Older devices would broadcast all messages to all devices on the LAN. For example, on a 100-device [[networks|network]], a switch would only send one message to the destination device. This management example would create 99% less traffic.
- **Routers** are the device that makes the internet possible. A router connected to your LAN acts as gateway to the internet. (This device on your LAN can be also be called a Gateway.) Routers manage network traffic by having a routing table of know devices. If a destination address is unknown to the Router, it will forward the message to another router. This analyze and forward process continues until the message reaches the correct address.