A major step in the popularization of [[computer]] systems was the development of [[Desktop|desktop]] computers. Steve Jobs and Stephen Wozniak built the first viable home [[computer]] and established Apple Computer Inc. (now Apple Inc.) in 1976 to mass-produce their garage-built home [[computer]]. Other companies, such as Commodore, offered similar solutions, but these smaller computers were not widely adopted by businesses, which continued to use the well-established mainframe computers. In 1981, IBM introduced its first desktop [[computer]] called the personal [[computer]], or PC, whose underlying [[Software|software]] was developed by a newly formed company known as Microsoft. The term PC is now widely used to refer to all machines that evolved from IBM’s personal [[computer]] product, including desktops and laptops.

Toward the end of the twentieth century, the ability to connect individual computers in a world-wide system called the internet was revolutionizing communication. The British scientist Tim Bernes-Lee proposed a system by which documents stored on computers throughout the internet could be linked together producing a system of linked [[information]] called the World Wide Web. In order to make web pages more accessible to users, search engines (e.g., Bing and Google) and browsers (e.g., Edge and Chrome) were developed. Search engines use technologies to index and tag pages so users can quickly search for resources based on keywords.

The miniaturization of computing machines continued. Tiny computers are embedded today in a wide variety of electronic appliances and devices. Because [[hardware]] components are continuing to get smaller, the capabilities of smartphones continue to expand. These handheld computers are much more than mobile telephones. They are equipped with a wide variety of sensors, including cameras, microphones, compasses, and touch screens, as well as a number of wireless technologies used to communicate with other smartphones and computers.