[[Software]] can be packaged in various ways, including shareware, freeware, and public domain. Shareware is an application that can be installed as a trial limited by time and/or functionality. If the user decides to purchase the application or subscription, they then get the full functionality. Freeware is, as the term suggests, free. However, freeware and shareware are both protected by end-user license agreements (EULA) and copyright laws (where applicable). This is where freeware and shareware are differentiated from [[software]] in the public domain. Public domain [[software]] has no EULA and no intellectual property protections and is available for anyone to download and use at their own discretion. However, in the United States, a copyright gives an author of a [[software]] package the ability to prevent unauthorized duplication for at least 35 years. Other countries may have similar copyright laws. Generally, copyright protects the expression of a specific idea and original works of authorship—with the intent to secure fair return to the author for creative labor and to stimulate artistic creativity for general good (United States Patent and Trademark Office). Copyright is not applied for but is automatically obtained at the creation of the work.

Patents in [[software]] packaging primarily protect unique methods, algorithms, or processes embedded within [[software]] applications. While patents can safeguard specific innovative aspects, such as novel coding techniques or inventive functionalities, they often do not cover the entire [[software]] package. Patents aim to encourage innovation by granting exclusive rights for a limited time, enabling creators to control and benefit from their inventive contributions within the [[software]] realm. Patents also relate to [[hardware]] and [[hardware]] components. There are two types of patents that [[hardware]] can be classified by: **utility patents** and **design patents**. The United States Patent and Trademark Office describes these patents, stating, "In general terms, a 'utility patent' protects the way an article is used and works (35 U.S.C. 101), while a 'design patent' protects the way an article looks (35 U.S.C. 171)"). An example of a utility patent may be a unique design for a mechanical keyboard switch, while a design patent may include the specific aesthetics of a mobile phone. There are conditions that must be met to receive a patent.