The idea of communicating instructions with punched cards originated in 1801 in a system specifying the steps of the weaving process. Different patterns of holes resulted in different woven designs. Later, Herman Hollerith used punched cards to speed up the tabulation process in the 1890 U.S. census. Punched cards were heavily used for a variety of computing systems until the mid-1970s. Electronic advances at the beginning of the twentieth century enabled the production of complex [[hardware]]. Examples of this progress include the electromechanical machine of George Stibitz completed in 1940 at Bell Laboratories and Mark I completed in 1944 at Harvard University by Howard Aiken and a team of IBM engineers. These machines made heavy use of electronically controlled mechanical relays.

Paralleling these efforts, the use of vacuum tubes gave way to fully electronic computers, such as the Atanasoff-Berry machine constructed at Iowa State College between 1937 and 1941 and Colossus built in England to decode German messages during the latter part of World War II. Other more flexible machines, such as ENIAC (Electronic Numerical Integrator and Calculator) developed at University of Pennsylvania, soon followed. From that point on, the development of [[computer]] systems largely depended on advancements in technology, such as the invention of the transistor. Later, the invention of complete circuits allowed for the integration of multiple circuits on one piece of semiconductor material, such as silicon. These integrated circuits reduced the size of the early computing systems of the 1940s from room-sized machines to machines the size of a single cabinet. Processing power began to double every two years. The mass production of integrated circuits made computers less expensive and thus more readily available in the market.