A [[computer]] system is a collection of [[hardware]], [[Software|software]], and middleware components (or a combination of these) that work together to transform [[data]] into [[information]] and meet a specific user’s need. The electronic and mechanical parts of a [[computer]] system are known as [[hardware]], the [[data]] and the [[computer]] programs are referred to as [[software]], and the components that share [[software]] and [[data]] between elements of a [[computer]] system (both [[hardware]] and [[software]] components) are known as middleware.

[[The Components of a Computer System|The components of a computer system]] that are tangible, such as monitors, tablets, keyboards, mouses, or smartphones, are examples of [[computer]] [[hardware]]. [[Computer]] [[hardware]] provides the physical elements that support each function of the IPO model. From the perspective of the IPO graphical model, [[hardware]] provides an environment in which each operation is performed, representing the boundaries of each box in the diagram. Specific [[hardware]] types support specific types of operations.

The components of a [[computer]] system that specify how [[data]] is transformed into [[information]] per the user specifications comprise [[computer]] [[software]]. [[Software]] is a collection of instructions that enable a user to interact with a [[computer]] to perform tasks. Internet browsers, text editing tools, and spreadsheets are examples of [[computer]] [[software]]. In the IPO model, [[software]] defines how each operation is performed. In other words, [[software]] outlines what is happening in each box of the IPO graphical model, particularly in the process box.

Middleware allows the [[hardware]] and [[software]] to communicate with each other, enabling [[data]] to move between [[computer]] system components. Middleware is represented by the arrows in the graphical IPO model.

Users are frequently emphasized as yet another component of the [[computer]] system.
### [[Hardware]]

[[Hardware]] is the set of [[computer]] system components that one can touch. Those are the electronic and mechanical parts the system requires to operate. Motherboards, graphics cards, central processing units (CPUs), and power supply are some of the most prominent [[hardware]] components in a general-purpose [[computer]] system. This includes items such as smartphones, tablets, laptops, and [[Desktop|desktop]] computers. Though the form factor (size and shape) of the components can vary greatly, [[computer]] systems have these components in common.

The motherboard is at the center of what makes a [[computer]] work. It houses the CPU and serves as the brain of the system allocating resources, such as power, and communicating with all other components. The CPU processes the [[data]] from the programs your [[computer]] runs. Random-access memory (RAM) occupies the memory slots of the CPU and keeps that [[data]] immediately accessible. The hard drive is a storage device that permanently stores [[data]], or temporarily stores [[data]] in a paging file system. This paging feature is a built-in mechanism available with most operating systems that permit [[data]] to be moved from RAM to the hard drive when the amount of memory in use exceeds the memory available on the [[computer]] system. A power supply unit supplies the system and allocates power among other components.
### [[Software]]

Without [[hardware]], there would be no way of running the essential [[software]] that makes computers run. [[Software]] programs run on your [[computer]] and provide instructions telling the [[computer]] what to do. The [[System Software|system software]], such as [[Windows]], Mac, or [[Linux]], runs the [[computer]] by controlling its [[hardware]] components and peripherals. [[Application Software|Application software]] are the programs that allow users to do specific tasks, such as edit text and images or send an email.

Word processing applications allow users to type letters, complete assignments, and produce any other written artifact. Spreadsheet applications help create charts and complete complex calculations. Email applications allow a user to receive and send email communications. Web browsers allow a user to access the content of web pages on various sites.